now we're just going to bring you some
news that's been uh developing while
we've been on air tonight the US
government has said that Israel may have
used us supplied weapons in breach of
international humanitarian law in some
instances during the war in Gaza these
findings are in a review ordered by the
White House let's find out more from our
correspondent Tom bitman in Washington
uh what more do we know
Tom Jane this has been a long awaited
report report by uh the state department
here after as you say President Biden
ordered a review of in fact seven
countries and the way in which they were
using us supplied weapons now that had
come of course under growing pressure on
the president particularly from Human
Rights organizations and from parts of
his Democratic base to investigate and
verify whether or not Us weapons were
being us used in breach of international
humanitarian law in Gaza now such was
the work that has gone into this the
state here missed its own deadline on
this by 3 days but we've had the report
in the last 10 minutes and the key line
is this it says it is reasonable to
assess that weapons supplied by the
United States have been used by Israeli
Security Forces since October the 7th in
instances inconsistent with
International humanitarian law now that
that is clearly a rebuke of Israel but
it stops short of saying that that
should then lead to any uh further
withholding of us weapons because it
says it takes its assurances about
dealing with and investigating these
incidents as credible so a very
important line there uh I think it
signifies the way in which President
Biden has been caught in a bind between
parts of his base who want more weapons
withheld from Israel and those who say
that he is already not showing enough
support to his key Ally in the region